Welcome to the lesson on Map Plot lib the favourite library of all those who want their data to be visualized
using graphs.
We're going to learn a lot from this lesson, at least the basics so you can understand how map plot
lib works.
But be sure to check the official documentation where you will find not only some tutorials to get you
started, which will show you more or less what I will show you in this lesson, but also many more
resources.
Because we can say that charts provide endless resources for any course, no matter how long it is.
And here you're going to find a lot of visual help on how to build graphics, how to modify colors,
and how to modify visualization styles.
You may have some very interesting tutorials, lots of examples.
So look what you can do with map plot lib.
So let's go to our notebook, which of course you have linked in this lesson.
So you can work together with me in this lesson and follow the examples and then go on your own to go
deeper.
So we're going to start by looking at how we import map plot lib.
Although we've seen this in the previous lesson where we took a little look at it, so we put import
map plot, lib dot p plot and we're also going to import it with a nickname which is p l t here.
It says that the next line is going to allow us to see the graphics directly when we run them on the
notebook.
And as we did in the previous lesson, we need to invoke the percent and map plot lib in line, which
is going to allow us to be able to render here on the notebook all of our graphics.
So we execute this line and now, yes, we have map plot lib at our disposal.
So now let's create the plot using the plot function that is map plot.
Lib dot plot.
And when we run this as we don't have any data.
Only an empty plot appears.
We could only see a coordinate frame and it doesn't have any information inside because we just put
plot with nothing between its arguments.
We didn't give it any information that it could display in that.
So let's create a list of numbers that we can plot on a graph.
Our list is going to be called A and we're going to make it equal to a list containing one, five,
three, eight, seven and 15.
Now we're going to call plot dot plot again.
But in its arguments, we're going to ask it to graph the list called a.
So we execute this cell.
And now we get a graph that is of linear type.
This is the type of graph that is shown when you put only plot.
And it shows us a line that represents each index of our list on the x axis and its values on the Y
axis.
So now we're going to create two lists called X and Y.
The X list is going to have values from 1 to 100.
Then we're going to say that X is equal to a list that is constructed with a range.
But has as argument the value 101 so it goes from 0 to 100 because 101 is not going to be included with
that.
We already have the X list.
And the values of Y will be equal to the square of the respective value of X in each index.
Then we can create a y list that is empty at the beginning and then fill it through a loop.
A for loop that for each number that it finds inside X takes the list Y and adds the value of number.
But boosted to two to obtain its square.
We run this cell and the lists have now been created.
Now we're going to plot both lists with a graph.
So we put plot, dot plot and what do we do here to get both lists?
If we hover the cursor over the brackets, we see that plot asks for arguments to give it both the X
coordinates and the Y coordinates of this plot.
So let's pass our lists X and Y.
Then we'll build a graph of coordinates.
Where on the x axis we're going to be, the numbers from 1 to 100, and on the y axis are going to be
the same numbers squared.
So how is this going to look?
We can see this kind of curve that is going to show the combination of the X and Y coordinates of each
of the hundred numbers.
This is one way to create it.
I've been pretty straightforward so that you can see something visually.
But now I'm going to show you a little bit better how we can create this graph in a plot lib using the
object orientated method o for object orientated.
So we're going to create the plot, but this time not using PLT plot, i'm going to use plot dot subplots.
So what's the difference?
The difference is that we're going to store in two variables fig and ax.
To plot subplot and the brackets.
So why do we do this?
It is by convention.
Well, we could do it directly with Axe or directly.
Even without this.
The convention asks us to store these two variables here.
Fig refers to the whole canvas in general, the place where we create our chart and X means axis, which
stands for the single chart that we put inside the canvas.
So what axis are we going to assign it?
Let's do it now.
Let's say the ax, which is the name of this axis plot, has as its values X and Y, which are the values
that we've just created in the list of just now.
So let's run this cell and it's created exactly the same plot.
You might be saying, Hey, Freddie, this the second way it took me more work.
Why would I do it like this?
So there's two reasons.
The idea is for you to see how this works on the back end, because now we're going to look at it in
complete flow.
And I wanted you to understand the logic of subplots.
And the second reason is because in a little while we're going to set more than one chart or axis in
the same canvas or fig.
So then it will be necessary to understand how to set figs and axes separately.
What we have here in these calls is going to be the complete flow for creating a plot in map plot lib.
Let's go through the whole circuit and get some extra insights.
So we start by importing and preparing the library we need.
So we put import matt plot lib dot py plot as plot.
This will be the first step we would do on a regular basis.
Then we have to make sure that we can render our graphics with percentage and map plot lib in line.
Oh, this is what corresponds to the first part, which is importing and preparing the library, then
follows the preparation of the data.
Here we do what we did just now.
So X is equal to a list which has all the numbers in the range up to 101.
And then we create Y, which is an empty list that is just constructed through a four loop that says
for each number that it finds inside X, it is going to add it in Y with the method append, but transforming
to that number in its power to the square.
Yes.
This is effectively the same thing we did just now.
I'm just showing you step by step.
This was the second part, the preparation of the data.
And then we're going to need to prepare the area of the graph, which is FIG and also the graph itself,
which is AX using plot dot subplots.
So we do this by saying that fig and ax are going to be equal to the two elements of map plot lib object
of type subplots.
Do you follow me?
What we did was to assign to these two variables the values of the area and the plot.
Now we're going to add data to the plot so that it can represent something.
And we're going to do that by storing specific information in the two chart elements that we have now,
which are fig and ax.
So bear with me.
We're getting to what I'm interested in explaining.
So we're going to load into the variable ax the values that we want to represent, which are the numbers
stored in the X and Y lists.
Then we say that a six point plot is going to contain X and Y as we did before.
And now we're going to do something we haven't done so far.
We're going to customize the plot by adding a title to it and also titles to the X and Y axes.
So how do we do this?
Well, by taking advantage of this discrimination we've made between X and fig.
We call ax set and we're going to set some parameters.
The parameter title is going to be equal to the accumulated earnings per day, for example.
We put comma to go to the next parameter and we put X label, which is going to be the text of the label
of the x axis.
If it is a graph of income per day and the x axis must contain the independent variable, we should
put days and the y label parameter should be earnings.
This way we customize the chart and give it some more information and then we can also save our graph.
If we take the variable fig which contains the area of the graph and apply the method, save fig to
it.
We write it like this.
Fig, dot, save fig.
And in brackets we put where we want to save it.
We can save it in graph accumulated revenue and we put the ending P and G, so that is saved as a PNG
image.
We run this and it runs all at the same time and we get the same thing as before.
Only now we also have the titles and we also saved it as a PNG image.
So now we're going to look at a scatterplot because there are many ways to create graphs, not just
these line graphs.
Let's create a new data set, this time using the numpy library.
We import it as we already know how to do with the name NP and we're going to create the data.
It can be with the variable x one that is equal to numpy.
With the method Lynn Space Lynn's base.
What it does is to create a series of dots distributed in a line in which we're going to establish where
it starts at zero and where it ends at 100.
And then we're going to establish how many dots this line is going to have.
Let's suppose 20.
So it's going to have one dot every five units.
Now we're going to create the other list, which is going to have the Y axis data and it's going to
be called y one and it's going to be equal to x one squared.
This would generate an array that contained one number for each of these dots that we have here.
So now we create the scatterplot.
Okay.
What does a scatterplot look like?
We start it the same way as before, with Fig and with AX, to which we assign the respective values
of plot dot subplots.
And we're going to assign the data with AX, but instead of giving it a plot type graph, we're going
to give it another type of graph.
We have many options.
And the one we want is scatter.
Whose variable X is going to be x one and the variable Y is going to be Y one.
So we run it and here comes this graph which has all these dots, which are 20 dots distributed from
0 to 100, and which form this curve, because we have put as the y axis the squared value of each of
these numbers.
So let's move on to another example.
Now let's visualize the function sine using the method of numpy, which is sin to construct the sign
of any number.
So we're going to call fig and ax again.
This, you're going to learn by heart and they're going to be equal to plot subplots.
And then we create the variables for our graph.
The first one can be x two which contains an object NP called Lind Space.
Where we're going to put the numbers ranging from -10 to 10 and that's 100 dots in total.
And the variable y two is going to be equal to an object and P that has the sign of x two.
And this would also generate an array because it would have a number for each one of the hundred numbers
that the list of the X has.
So now let's call our graph ax scatter that has x two and y two as variables.
And look what we generate here.
An interesting and nice looking graph with some waves going up and down because there are a lot of dots
accumulating in this part.
It looks like the line is thicker, but it's actually accumulated dots.
Well, this is something we've done with Matlock Lib.
We have a lot more to see.
But as this lecture was already too long, let's move on to the second part to see how we continue to
create better and better graphs with Matt.
Plot Lib.